Welcome back can earlier in the earlier lesson we saw how placeholder dot com has these nice default
images and you can adjust the color the font color the text that's being displayed in there the size
and so on.
So what you want to do in this lesson is create a generator to generate those images on the fly using
our what we've learned with Javascript.
So let's first of all we've set up a forum and within this forum we need to have some options.
So the first thing that I want to do is I want to have a select menu so select and this one on change.
So it's going to fire off whenever we change it and I want to update the I Am G.
So basically I am g you this is the function that I want to fire off.
And every time we make a change I want to fire off the image you are image update function.
And next we need to create several options and give it some values and we're going to get that information
directly from the values of the options.
So this will just say select.
So we're not going to have any values in there because onchange is going to work.
We need a change actually in order for something to happen and that's why you can't have it as the first
option because if the person tries to select that first option that's not going to work.
So let's set some default sizes so saw that we can do maybe a small size would be 150.
So we can do small and let's add in a few other ones.
And just the the sizes of these.
So instead of 150 let's do 350 and then let's do 750.
So this is going to be medium.
And then of course we have large.
So this is just a start off.
So basically whatever these get changed then I want to fire off a function and I've kept that message
one in here because I think this is going to come in useful whenever we get that new path we can put
it in there just by calling out to message.
So let's let's set up that function that we're calling to.
So that's I am g you with that upper case you.
So next Let's hide in our image so I know I just copy and paste that image that we used before and I'm
going to keep that within the form.
So go back and refresh.
So now we're firing this off.
And what we want to do is we want to change the size of the image.
So let's put this one on a new line so it looks a little bit better.
So within the form when we make our selection I want it to change that image.
So these are the default sizes.
We know that we've got this one as the default center size.
And I want to grab that and update it so we know that we've got information within that event trigger
selects console directory out.
And that was event target so that we know that what's actually firing this off.
And let's also do one other one here as well.
So we know that this is a select.
So let's try a value let's see if we can get the value.
So go back and refresh it.
So open up our developer space and when we select it we see that we can pass those values that are within
the select.
And we also have select here so we have a lot of information in here.
And one of the ones that I wanted to make use of is because I want to be able to detect what type it
is that's actually passing the information through and we can see that the type for the select option
is select one.
So I want to make sure that if the type is select one then I want to do something with that and that's
update this entire value over here.
So let's check to see if and this is a vent target type
so if event target type is equal to select one then we know that we've got the selection and we can
also go by if we could add in names as well.
So there's a lot of different ways to distinguish it.
But I'd just like to keep it as minimal as possible.
And the other ones are going to be actually text inputs and one is going to be a color picker.
So they're going to be all different types.
So I can add those in as well.
So let's update those.
So we know we need a way to put some text so let me add a line break and text so odd text here.
And this is input type equals text.
And then within here I want to simply add in some type of text information
and we'll add the On Change as well.
So we're going to have that same trigger here.
So onchange So if anything changes in here we want it firing off and we want to trigger off that value.
So next
so select color and this is another one that's going to be really easy because with each tim L5 we've
already got color pickers so we know that with the color picker we can select different colors that
we can use.
So let's save that and go out and refresh it.
So you've got the ability to add text.
We've got the ability to select a color so everything is there as we need it and when we go into here
we can see the outputs that are being responded back so we make a selection.
We see that we're getting the colors there and we can utilize all of this information as we build out
our string and replace our image source value.
So what I want to do now is set up some global variables that we can make use of when we're building
out our basic strings.
So first of all let's set up a variable.
I'm calling it i m g or maybe I can call it I
so I color.
So whatever the color is that we want.
So I'm going to just set those defaults that we have right now.
So the eye color and I text so this is the default text that we have.
So we've got image 1
next variable.
We need to do I.
And this is going to be the size and our starting size is 350 by 150.
So at the end of the day we know we need to use all of these variables and we need to actually generate
some type of output that we can replace that source image with.
So also let's let's see if within the console whenever we go into the input we know we have to go over
to the parent as we did before.
And let's try that now and we'll go to the parent and then we'll move down to get to the my image so
I want you to pause the video and traverse through our selection.
So whatever element got selected they all share the same parent which is the form.
So go back to the form and then go to select the image and output that right now within the console.
And then we have our starting point in order to update that image as needed.
So go ahead pause the video and try that out and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So if you had an opportunity to try that out and we're all we're doing is putting it into the console
so we can console log it out.
And sometimes it does help if you do console directory and that way you can traverse through all the
different elements.
So we saw earlier that we can use the target to select whatever event just got triggered.
That brought us to this function and we also saw earlier that we can traverse up to the parent element.
So that gets us to the parent which is the form.
So the next step is going down to select the image and we know with these inputs we have names we can
select those as well but we haven't added in any names.
So how do you think you can get to the image we're able to successfully get the image source.
So one of the nice things about images is that we can use the my image.
So let's open up refresh this open up the console make some type of update there and we can see that
we've got the form.
We've got a bunch of children in there and we see the top one here that we got my image.
So it's as easy as just selecting my image.
We can use the ID my image and then we know once we grab that element we can really easily grab that
source and I'm going to update this a console log or a console directory back to console log.
So let's refresh it again and we'll go out here.
We'll update the color press OK.
And there we go.
So now we've got access to our image.
So the last and final thing that we need to do in this exercise is simply build out our strength.
So let's set up a variable and we'll set that one up over here.
And basically this is going to be the image source that we want to make use of.
So we know we've got to start with these same parameters.
So let's go ahead and grab this.
And next we know that we've got a bunch of variables that we've set up.
So we're looking for size.
So that was ice size that we set up.
So we're using those global variables and then we're going to use the event event handler.
The triggers here in order to update these values so we can grab the size.
And next we know that after the next slash we have a color so we can use our eye color variable.
And then after that we have another slash and we're going to just use leave this text right now as white
text and we need to do text equals.
And then lastly we toss out our last parameter address that was the text
and I forgot one quote there.
So that looks right now.
And then we know that we can take this big long path here and we can update it with a new source.
So whatever source we've created here we can update it and we can actually even skip all of that as
well.
But it's better it's more visually easier to understand what we're adjusting with all of these values.
So now the next step is really just to make that adjustment that we need.
So we know that we've got that target type if it's select one that we're actually updating with whatever
value we're picking up here.
We're updating the size.
So now let's update the size and we know that we've picked up a value from a target.
So let's save that one.
So let's try this out.
So we've got this one hooked up and we know that we can change the size and image is getting larger
and smaller as we're making our selection and maybe I do need to make.
Oh they were shrunk down a little bit there so let's bring them back up to 150 so that they're a nice
size.
So go back refreshed again.
And now we see that we can adjust the size depending on our selection.
So the next thing that we need to do is add in the text and the color.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video using that type and update the appropriate variable
and that's all you have to do within the condition update the appropriate variable so pause the video
give it a try and I'll show you the solution.
Coming up so if you had an opportunity to try that out.
So it's just a matter of setting the conditions.
So you've got another condition here that we're going to check to see if the type
and the type for this one that we're looking at is if the type of text.
So that's all of our inputs are all different.
So we know that we can utilize the text so the text is going to be text.
That's the variable that's going to change.
And also maybe we can do our last LCF
and this time we're going to look to see if the type is color and then we know if it's color we can
we can just update the color.
And then instead of the text Let's update the eye color
with the target value.
So there is actually one thing that we do need to take care of as well.
So this was a bit of a trick question because the colors are being returned with the hash and we don't
have a hash here within the string so we need to get rid of that hash.
So I show you how to do that as well but let's try this for now.
So refresh and add in some text.
When we click off of it the color.
And this isn't going to work because right now we're not adding in the hash.
So everything else is working and we've got a problem here because of the hash.
So let me show you how you can get rid of that hash so the hash is really is a we just do a replace
of thought that value
and this is the one that I need to update so variable and what just color and color.
So this is just a simple placeholder for the value.
And then when I set eye color I can update and color and I can use a built in method called replace.
And this is also very useful in javascript that it gives you the ability to really easily just replace.
So I'm going to grab that hash and I'm going to just replace it with a blank.
So now when we go out and we refresh it and hit OK we see that the color itself is actually working.
So the last part of this exercise was to generate that string and have it useful somewhere.
So it needs to output somewhere where we could easily grab it and make use of it.
So let me update.
So we did want to update
message and we could simply grab it from there as well.
So I m g.
Source and let's refresh it again.
So now whenever I update any of the content here I can see that it's actually updating there and then
I can just grab the string and I can output it so I can utilize this as essentially my generator for
my placeholder text.
And this is how you can make use of all of these events simply passing over that same function.
And then we use logic in order to separate out and determine which one of these actually triggered the
onchange event and using that logic then that helps us determine which value we have to update.
And then the rest of it was just simply updating the updating the values creating a new string with
the new values or with the values the variables and then traversing through the Dom to the image source
and then simply updating the source with the brand new string value.
So what you can do now is you can update this code to add in a few more options here and another option
that you can add in is changing this value here.
So we've got a text color value and you can add a second input for color and update that value as well.
And for that one you're actually going to have to distinguish which color type it is.
So you probably would have to add in a name or an ID so that when you are doing your condition here
you can see which one it is that you're updating.
So either outside or the inside vine values.
So go ahead try it for yourself.
Make some updates and generate some images from placeholder dot com.